The world is full of sound . It ' s all around us all the time . If it ' s carefully designed , we can use it to tap directly into our feelings and evoke a deeper connection to ourselves and the world . As a group of composers , sound designers , creative technologists and musicologists , my team and I combine all this knowledge to create sound experiences that convey stories and ideas . We use scientific data as musical scores , translating complex information into a language we can easily understand . We work with field recordings , compose linear and modal music , and use technology to understand , control and generate melodies . We are merging art , music , technology and science into the field of sound scenography , using the auditory sense to foster an emotional understanding of our world . So let me take you on a sonic journey of music and code , where ones and zeros are mixed with notes and rhythms and poetry meets science . What you are about to hear is a combination of recordings from nature and our surroundings , data-and-AI-driven music and a lot of human creativity . So relax , and if you feel comfortable , close your eyes , take a deep breath , and listen closely . Allow yourself to feel . We begin in the water . Here in the deep , we hear tiny creatures , different textures , or even the contrast between the Atlantic . . . and the Pacific Ocean . We follow the sounds of seals and bring the elusive song of the harbor porpoise to the range of our human hearing . The ocean is speaking to us . Let ' s move out of the water into dry land , and dig deep into the Earth . Countless small animals , like earthworms , grubs and ants , they interact , they communicate and work tirelessly to maintain a perfect ecosystem . Through geophones and soil sensors , we can capture these voices and hear the soil singing to us . But it ' s our human creativity that can interpret , modulate , filter and mix all these recordings with music , creating a tapestry of sound that gives a voice to the complex world hidden under our feet . From here , we take flight high into the sky . Feel the lightness of traveling through air while enjoying the mystical messages carried by birdsongs . Let ' s focus our attention on that hermit thrush , as it sings to us . Within that song is a message , that if we slow it down , we can comprehend . Every bird finds his voice in this intricate orchestration . And while they all play together in perfect harmony , we need to find our place in this acoustic ecosystem . Let ' s keep moving up , into the sky . . . through the atmosphere . . . into the vast emptiness of space . In this abstract place , where there is no sound , we reach only to the power of music to try to make sense out of the relationship between sound and time . As the sound of a voice , we travel to the center of a black hole and wonder what will happen to us in the presence of this cosmic force . We are being stretched , as our musical body just falls apart . New and old musical concepts collide into a timeless sound mass , leaving all sense of structure behind . We are surrounded by the past , the present and the future , all at the same time , while information and matter lose all their meaning . It is here , in this emptiness , that we find ourselves traveling to the human imagination , an infinitely magical place , bound only by our creativity . We hear artificial intelligence making music and envision the potential of new collaborations . Explosions of sounds and melodies remind us of the importance of emotional communication , while simultaneously giving us an idea of the creative process being enhanced by technology . As we return from our journey and rejoin one another in this room , let us embrace the force of human imagination and use sound to connect deeper to ourselves and to others . Let us open ourselves to the transformative power of sound and its contribution to a new emotional understanding of our world . Thank you . 