Thank you . Thank you very much . That was whistling . I ' m trying to do this in English . What is a chubby , curly-haired guy from Holland — why is he whistling ? Well actually , I ' ve been whistling since the age of four , about four . My dad was always whistling around the house , and I just thought that ' s part of communication in my family . So I whistled along with him . And actually , until I was 34 , I always annoyed and irritated people with whistling , because , to be honest , my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior . I whistled alone , I whistled in the classroom , I whistled on bike , I whistled everywhere . And I also whistled at a Christmas Eve party with my family-in-law . And they had some , in my opinion , terrible Christmas music . And when I hear music that I don ' t like , I try to make it better . So when " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " — you know it ? But it can also sound like this . But during a Christmas party — at dinner , actually — it ' s very annoying . So my sister-in-law asked me a few times , " Please stop whistling . " And I just couldn ' t . And at one point — and I had some wine , I have to admit that — at one point I said , " If there was a contest , I would join . " And two weeks later , I received a text message: " You ' re going to America . " So , OK , I ' m going to America . I would love to , but why ? So I immediately called her up , of course . She googled , and she found this World Whistling Championship in America , of course . She didn ' t expect me to go there . And I would have lost my face . I don ' t know if that ' s correct English . But the Dutch people here will understand what I mean . I lost my face . And she thought , " He will never go there . " But actually , I did . So I went to Louisburg , North Carolina , southeast of the United States , and I entered the world of whistling . And I also entered the World Championship , and I won there , in 2004 . That was great fun , of course . And to defend my title — like judokas do and sportsmen — I thought , well let ' s go back in 2005 — and I won again . Then I couldn ' t participate for a few years . And in 2008 , I entered again in Japan , Tokyo , and I won again . So what happened now is I ' m standing here in Rotterdam , in the beautiful city , on a big stage , and I ' m talking about whistling . And actually , I earn my money whistling , at the moment . So I quit my day job as a nurse . And I try to live my dream — well , actually , it was never my dream , but it sounds so good . OK , I ' m not the only one whistling here . You say , " Huh , what do you mean ? " Well actually , you are going to whistle along . And then always the same thing happens: people are watching each other and think , " Oh , my God . Why ? Can I go away ? " No , you can ' t . Actually , it ' s very simple . The track that I will whistle is called " Fête de la Belle . " It ' s about 80 minutes long . No , no , no . It ' s four minutes long . And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling . Yes , so I whistle the tone . Sorry , I forgot one thing — you whistle the same tone as me . I heard a wide variety of tones . This is very promising . This is very promising . I ' ll ask the technicians to start the music . And if it ' s started , I just point where you whistle along , and we will see what happens . Oh , I ' m so sorry , technicians . I ' m so used to that . I start it myself . OK , here it is . OK . It ' s easy , isn ' t it ? Now comes the solo , I propose I do that myself , OK ? Max Westerman: Geert Chatrou , the World Champion of Whistling . Geert Chatrou: Thank you . Thank you . 