Ever since I was a kid, I loved trash. (Laughter) I mean, if you think about it, trash is the perfect building blocks for playing and being creative because trash is for free  and you can find it everywhere, and you can always find  just as much as you need. Cardboard boxes, books, bottles, broken bicycles or pallets, colorful plastic bags. I would shove them all in a shopping cart, and then I would shove it back to my parents' backyard, where I would give it new life  in my ever-expanding treetop house, where I sometimes would sit and dream about one day becoming an artist. This is me (Laughter) when I was five years old, playing in my parents' trashcan. And back then, my father, he had a bicycle shop, and in the weekend,  he would bring me along to the recycle station to get rid of his trash. And to me, the recycle station was like a gigantic toy store filled with everything my young heart could desire, like a boombox that was broken just because somebody had bent  their antenna and they had discarded it, or a window with all the glass intact that fit perfectly from the skylight for my treetop house. I got a pipe that could be a slide for one of my action figures. But at the recycle station, there was one big problem: it was illegal to dumpster dive. And so me and my father, through the years , had developed a sneaky method where we would park his green company van just in front of the station manager's office, outside the window so it would block  the entire view of the recycle station and me and my father, behind the truck, could steal all the trash without nobody seeing us. Or as I like to think back then, set the trash free before the dump truck would come and take it and it would be gone forever. My name is Thomas Dambo, and I build giant sculptures of recycled materials while I dream about saving the world from drowning in trash. Pretty much my whole life  I have been centered around trash, recycling and upcycling, I've been a rapper, I've rapped and had music videos  about dumpster diving I made TV shows about dumpster diving. I've had upcycling workshops  with Christmas ornaments. I've built countless installations  and sculptures, all with the same focus, to limit our world's trash by showing us all how beautiful and valuable our trash is. But the last nine years, I've been working on one super, super big project where I'm building big recycled  troll sculptures of scrap wood and hiding them in the forest  around the world for us all to go and find. And I will now introduce you to a couple of them. This here is Little Tilde. Little Tilde, she is in a forest in Copenhagen, where I also come from - I come from Denmark - and she's hiding behind a tree because she's a little bit afraid of us humans. Because most of the time  when we come to visit her forest, we come with a big chainsaw  to cut down the very same forest. This one is called Hanna Halerød. Hannah has a 350-foot-long tail that is made from pellets  that around 70 volunteers have created, and it runs from the nearest parking lot and then through the forest, over a little hill and around the tree and up to where you can then follow it and find where she's standing. This one is called Sigurd. (Laughter) Sigurd is trying to tame a big or little big red car while it's rolling down a hill. And most of my trolls, also like Sigurd, don't really like cars because they find them really noisy and really smelly. This one is Røskva, it is in Maine, here in the United States. This one is called Jyttes. It is a holding a big tree like little tree hugger troll, in Mandurah in Australia. This one is called Lost Finn, I just finished it two weeks ago in Vermont. And this one is called the Moon Mother, it is my number 100 troll. I have now finished 118 trolls that can be found in 17 countries  all around the world. (Applause) (Applause) Thank you so much. Thousands of volunteers have helped me take apart pallets and recycle hundreds of tons of scrap wood that now over 10 million people  have gone to visit while all returning home with a valuable lesson, that something made of something old can be just as good as something  made of something new. When I'm not on the road,  I have my studio and my workshop at a big old farm in Denmark, where I now employ 23 people full time. And all of our salaries, and including the farm, is generated by rethinking the value of other people's trash. We dumpster dive, we clean, collect, organize and build everything from other people's trash. Like my workshop here  that is covered in colorful shingles cut from old aluminum billboards. And before I got here today, I had my old working jeans  sewn into this beautiful hat. It takes approximately five tons of scrap wood to build one of my trolls. And in the United States, 12 million tons of scrap wood  is driven to the landfill every year. That is actually enough  to build 2.5 million trolls of scrap wood in the United States alone, per year. It's probably a lot more trolls than we need. But my point is, (Laughter) my point is that we could use our waste for so many better things than to grow our landfills bigger and bigger. We could build houses, we could build furniture, toys, homes, probably skyscrapers, I think  the possibilities are unlimited. I believe that anything  can be made out of anything, and that there should be no such thing as trash. Yet the world is running out of resources while the world is drowning in trash. But there is a saying that one man's trash  is another man's treasure. And if we would all learn to understand the full meaning of this sentence, that one man's trash is another man's treasure, that trash equals treasure, that trash equals wealth and opportunity, then we would also understand that our world is actually not drowning in trash. It is filled with wealth and opportunity to build a better world. And I believe the reason why we don't understand this, it is because we've all grown up in a society that has told us that trash is dirty, it is disgusting and it is dangerous. We've been taught that trash is worthless, and we live in a world where we put those who work with trash at the bottom of our society  and at the bottom of our payrolls. But if we want to save the world from drowning in trash, we have to change that mindset. And we have to learn to love our trash for the valuable resource it is. And… This is me, 43 years old, at one of the very same recycle stations that I used to go to with my father as a child. And now I'm no longer an outlaw. Now I have my own container where people will give me the stuff they don't want anymore, like pallets and old floors  and a boombox that's still working, so that I can bring it back to my farm, where me and my crew, and my father when he comes to visit, can use it to create new things. I believe we could easily set up millions of small local partnerships such as this, if we would bring our trash out in the light where people could see it and see the opportunity in it. I found my dream of becoming an artist in a trash can. Trash is a treasure. Trash can make you a millionaire. But treated without caution, trash is treacherous  and can drown the world. And so I will end my talk today with a simple call to action. Look at what is being thrown out at your home. Next time you're cleaning out your garage, at the job where you work, or at the factory that you own, and take responsibility for your trash. Take a photo of your trash. Share that photo with your friends, your family, and your world so you can try and find that someone for whom the content  of your trash can is a treasure. Because if you don't do so, then you might just be throwing out someone's dream next time the dump truck  comes to empty your trash can. Thank you.