Will you forgive me? You're likely asking yourself for what and maybe why. But for those that know me and, well, the many of you that don't, in any human relationship, two things are certain: conflict and harm. And when I feel safe and can be vulnerable, I will undoubtedly say something that challenges your truth, clashes with your deep convictions, or demonstrates a bias that is harmful because my imperfections are many and my humanity is flawed. So before we get started on this journey together, I'll ask again. Will you forgive me? No matter what I do, no matter what I say. Will you forgive me? See, this type of preemptive forgiveness is called grace. And I know it well. I’ve had the fortune of surviving vast childhood trauma and it’s led me down this path where I’ve spent the majority of my life supporting young people who have been impacted by violence. And through this labor of love, I've discovered there is no greater catalyst for change than unapologetic grace. Not a grace selectively applied -- that's favoritism -- but a grace offered to all despite the harm that has happened. I've watched this grace restore relationships torn apart by violence. It's powerful. So imagine what it can do right here, right now. This grace, this willingness to look past the pain and find the person whose purpose is greater than the destructive decisions that live in all of our pasts. This grace allows us to dream out loud about what's possible. Beyond the problems. So I ask you again. Will you forgive me? No matter what I do. No matter what I say. Will you forgive me? Now I know this is a steep ask. But I promise, if you say “yes,” it will give us the strength we need to stand in the tension of the in-between. In between your truth and my truth, your opinion and my opinion, your lived experiences and my lived experiences. We're not always going to agree. In fact, on many things we will disagree. The best way to tackle climate change. The future of us in an AI world. Race, gender identity, religion, politics and the Seattle Seahawks, which candidly, all of you, especially any of the 49er fans know is the best team in the National Football League. (Audience claps and boos) See, any of these topics can add to what already feels like an impassable divide. But what if, in this moment, we allowed grace to bring us together despite our differences, here, in this messy middle? What if, in this moment, we allowed grace to be a beacon of light, to show us the way through to a place where we could cocreate a world that allows us all to live, love and thrive? If it can happen anywhere, it can happen here. With all of your brilliant minds and beautiful hearts. It all starts with a simple "yes" to a difficult request. Will you forgive me? Thank you. (Applause and cheers)