Margaret Mead, anthropologist Margaret Mead, famously mused that in her view, the first evidence of civilization wasn't architecture, wasn't tools, but rather a 15,000-year-old fossil of a healed fracture. Evidence that someone else had taken the time to help the injured person to safety and through recovery. Fast forward 15,000 years, and medical science has brought many advances. Many of us are projected here in this audience to live until 115 years old. It gets people like me thinking, as we go through this lifetime, because our methods of repairing the human body still, no offense, look a lot like carpentry, we're all going to be acquiring parts of our bodies that we weren't born with. If we haven't already. This wouldn't be a problem, except we're getting injured earlier in life and living longer and longer. Bone is the most transplanted human material after blood, and as a society, we are replacing millions of joints per year because of just a couple millimeters of damaged cartilage. None of this would be a problem, except for getting injured earlier in life and living longer and longer. And the earlier we get implants, the less time they last. And these trends are globalizing. I mean, it's enough to make you hysterical. People like me, you know, I've thought we need our implants to last as long as we do. I'm a biomedical engineer, and over a decade ago, I first came to this stage to talk about our approach to building upon this cornerstone of human civilization, repairing the human body, using cells as an ingredient to grow living and atomically precise spare parts for the human body that function on day one, fit perfectly and last as long as we do. And in 2014, I, with others, launched a company called EpiBone with the help of many TEDsters, some of whom are actually here in this audience -- yes -- to test this approach in humans for bone and cartilage. And I'm here to give you an update to tell you how far we've come. So here's how it works. We start from a CT scan from which we can extract three-dimensional data, and using digital fabrication techniques like 3D printing and 3D milling, make a perfect puzzle piece shaped biomaterial scaffold, infuse it with adult stem cells and cultivate it in what we call a bioreactor. A bioreactor is really just a fancy word for our proprietary cell culture robots that mimic the conditions of the human body, providing controlled delivery of oxygen, nutrients and mechanical forces. So you can think of this as kind of diet and exercise that get the stem cells to attach to the scaffold, proliferate and, most importantly, differentiate. It takes us three weeks to engineer bone, four weeks to engineer cartilage, and we have a platform technology that allows us to engineer bones or joints throughout the body. 2021 we made history as the first biotechnology company greenlit by the FDA to use this approach in human, taking stem cells, turning them into tissues, putting those tissues into people. And we did this for six patients in our phase 1.2 historic human clinical trial. And we replaced jawbones in those patients. And what I can tell you is that now, almost two years since we've implanted our first patient, whether the patients were 18, 59, male, female, suffering from congenital defects or trauma, at Cleveland Clinic, the San Francisco VA or UT San Antonio, we're seeing the same thing. The grafts fit perfectly, integrate seamlessly with no adverse events, but perhaps even more importantly, the patients are eating, speaking, sleeping normally because these are the measurements that really matter. You know, for people like me who've been working on this for two decades, you know, science is built on the shoulders of giants. And I joined teams that had been working on this for decades prior. You can imagine how we feel to be finally making this one step forward towards making good on our mission, which is to improve patient lives. (Applause) We are in the process now of applying for permission from FDA to repeat this success in a much larger, game-changing market of knee cartilage. Many of us here in the audience need it now if we don't have already had our joints replaced. So I really hope to be able to come back in a few years' time and tell you we've made good on this expanded mission. So in conclusion, I'd like to invite you to scan your body and imagine all those spare parts of our bodies that we're bound to accumulate as we go through this lifetime. Would we rather have those spare parts made from metal, plastic, ceramic, or rather to connect to our own internal fountain of cellular youth and grow these parts? I'm here to tell you that this possibility is in reach, and that we have every intention of making it happen. Thank you so much. (Applause)