Looking at her father’s brutally murdered body, Oiwa was sick with despair. Her father had been Oiwa’s only hope for ending her marriage to the cruel and dishonorable samurai Iemon. And now, while her husband and  brother-in-law vowed to find the culprit, Oiwa was trapped in her unhappy home with only the household servant Kohei to witness her suffering. What the grieving woman couldn’t guess, however, was just how close the killer was. After Oiwa’s father tried  to end the marriage, it was Iemon who murdered him in cold blood. Hearing of her troubles, Oiwa’s wealthy doctor neighbor sent some medicine to soothe her. However, when Iemon went to offer thanks, the doctor revealed his gift was part of a sordid scheme. His beautiful young granddaughter was madly in love with Iemon, and if the samurai left Oiwa for her, the doctor would offer him great riches. Iemon happily accepted this bargain, and eager to marry his new bride, he sent a man called Takuetsu to dispose of his poisoned wife. But when Takuetsu arrived in Oiwa’s room, he was appalled. The poison had swollen her eye and her hair fell to the floor in bloody clumps. Taking pity, Takuetsu told Oiwa about the doctor’s scheme. Furious, Oiwa lunged for a sword. Takuetsu wrestled it away and flung the blade across the room. But when Oiwa ran to confront her husband, she stumbled, falling against the sword. Wounded and poisoned, Oiwa cursed Iemon’s name as the life left her body. At the discovery of his wife's demise, Iemon arranged to remarry that very night— but not before killing his servant Kohei, who heard Oiwa’s death. While Iemon celebrated his wedding, his friends nailed both corpses to a heavy door and sunk them in a nearby river. That night, Iemon reveled in his successful scheme. But suddenly his bride’s sleeping face shifted into Oiwa’s tortured features. Iemon acted on his violent instincts, slashing her throat. But when his fear subsided, he realized that he’d killed his new wife. He stumbled out of the room  and into another monstrous figure wearing the face of his deceased servant. The samurai ran his sword through the man— only to discover he’d slain his new grandfather-in-law as well. Iemon fled the house, running frantically until he came upon a moonlit river. Here, he stopped to plot his next move, fishing as he thought. Soon his fishing rod began to twitch, but the harder he pulled, the heavier his catch became. Finally, a wooden door broke the river’s surface— with Oiwa’s writhing body on one side and Kohei’s on the other. Iemon ran for days, finally taking shelter in a mountain hermitage. Over the following months, he tried to convince himself these horrible visions were just illusions— but his nightmares never relented. One night, as he attempted to walk off another bad dream, a nearby lantern began to crackle and tear. The paper stretched larger and larger until Oiwa’s ghost appeared in a blaze of fire. Iemon begged for mercy,  but Oiwa had none to offer. Over just 24 hours, the spirit slaughtered his parents and friends, and tortured the samurai with ravenous rats. Only when Iemon was truly hopeless did Oiwa enlist her brother-in-law to secure bloody justice for her and her father. In the 19th century, Oiwa’s quest for vengeance was one of the most popular kabuki theater performances, renowned for its grisly narrative and groundbreaking special effects. To depict Oiwa’s iconic transformation, designers hid bags of fake blood in her wig. And for her grand, ghostly entrance, Oiwa’s actor really would emerge from a flaming lantern, doing an assisted handstand to look as though she’s descending from above. Today, Oiwa is considered Japan’s most famous ghost, and her image continues to inspire counterparts in film and television. But those who retell her story still tread carefully, often asking her spirit’s permission at her rumored grave in Tokyo. In this way, modern storytellers continue to give Oiwa the respect— and fear— she so rightfully deserves.