It’s daybreak in the city of Chan Chan, and Maxo, a former soldier, has been up all night fretting. Last night, a friend stopped by and instructed Maxo to go to the plaza in the artisan neighborhood at noon for an important message. But with the recent political turmoil, answering this mysterious summons will be dangerous. Situated on the north coast of modern-day Peru, for hundreds of years, this adobe brick metropolis was the seat of the Chimú Empire, the most powerful empire ever seen on this continent— until now. This morning, the sleeping city looks, in many ways, the same as ever. Its ten palaces have decorative walls that keep ordinary people like Maxo out, but he doesn’t need to enter to know that the rulers inside no longer truly represent his people. Instead, the Incas rule here now, after defeating the Chimú army. They took the Chimú king, Minchancaman, to the Inca capital of Cusco and married him to an Inca princess. Now, though one of Minchancaman’s sons still sits on the throne, he must do as the Incas wish because his father is their hostage. Maxo hurries past the palaces, following a canal to his destination. An elaborate network of canals bring water from the Andean highlands to this desert city. The plaza is bustling, but to Maxo’s eyes, it’s a shadow of what it used to be. Before the conquest, Chan Chan was a trade hub, with llamas bringing goods from the highlands, and thousands of artisans— including expert goldsmiths and artists who turned the feathers of macaws and exotic birds into beautiful clothing. All this is gone now: the Incas took the artisans away to Cusco. Inca spies could be anywhere, so to blend in, Maxo approaches a man peddling seafood. As he barters for fresh fish, a priest taps his shoulder. He silently beckons Maxo to follow him. As they wind through the empty artisan’s homes, Maxo fears a trap. When the priest leads him through a dark doorway, he even draws his knife. But when he sees what’s on the other side, he drops it. Gathered in front of him are influential people from all over the city and beyond: nobility, local political and religious leaders, even a few familiar faces from the army— what’s left of it. They've been secretly working on a plan that could change everything. Leaders from all over the former Chimú Empire are waiting to see what happens here, in Chan Chan. Tonight, they will rebel against the Incas, attacking the Inca soldiers posted at the old fortress down the road, site of the final battle in the war. They want Maxo to join them. Actually, they need Maxo to join them. As the only survivor of the last battle, he alone knows the layout of the site. Maxo isn't sure he can face the place where so many of his friends died. And what about their king, hostage in Cusco? If they rebel, won’t the Incas kill him? In response, a young man steps out of the shadows: King Minchancaman’s son. He explained that a rumor has arrived from Cusco, that the king is already dead. So the time for rebellion is now, and the young prince will lead it. The prince’s speech is enough to convince Maxo. As he follows the canals home to prepare, he remembers how the Incas cut off the water supply, but Chan Chan survived on its deep, independent wells. He hopes his city has one more reserve of strength to draw from. In 2016, the mummified remains of a man from this period were discovered just outside Chan Chan. Many details of the rebellion and who was behind it remain mysteries and best guesses. What we do know is that afterward, the Incas burned Chan Chan, killing many of its residents and scattering others throughout the Inca Empire. Just decades later, the Inca Empire itself fell, conquered by Spanish forces. As for our mummy, after surviving many battle wounds, he likely lived to an old age and died of natural causes.