I have always had a strong feeling to rebel. Even as a child, the more I was suppressed, the more I resisted. In a conservative society, it was not easy for me or anyone around me. I had a burning fire inside me. How can my country have such a richness of people and culture and yet so much darkness? I decided to show this richness by telling the stories of the communities that did not fit in the single narrative of my country. A narrative that dictates how we have to think and how we have to live. A narrative that nurtures fundamentalism and makes people radical and unaccepting. I am from Pakistan and I make films. One by one, the heroes of my films became devices of hope for their communities. Their diverse communities accepted me, let me in and let me tell their stories to the world. One of these stories is about K2. K2 is the second highest and most dangerous mountain in the world. While I was filming the hardships of the climbers at K2, I noticed the hardships of the porters. They trace the routes of the deadly mountains and carry the luggage of climbers on their back. While foreign climbers are appreciated for their summits, these porters are deprived of any recognition. There I met Hassan Sadpara, one of the high-altitude porter and climber. He's the first ever Pakistani who scaled six 8,000-meter peaks, including Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world. Through his story, the world first time found out about these struggles and resistance of porters in Pakistan. Like mountaineers, the folk musicians of Pakistan are also victims of social disregard. Faqeer Zulfiqar is the only musician in Pakistan who plays boreendo, a 5,000-year-old clay musical instrument. In my eyes, he is an inspiration, a hero, keeping our rich traditions alive. While we were filming our documentary about dying folk musical instruments, some people near his village tried to stop us. They could not tolerate something as forbidden as music being filmed. Imagine an artist who depends on music for their survival. They have to go through the pain of being called names and declared unfit for society. My third hero is my friend, Sarah Gill. She made history by becoming Pakistan's first transgender doctor. Transgender people are the most disrespected members of our community, discarded by everyone and faced with so much discrimination, they are often left with two options for their survival. Begging or prostitution. Sarah, however, made an exceptional achievement. But breaking stereotypes was not easy for her. Her resilience is an inspiration. My films carry the voice of these people far and wide. Our climber, Hassan Sadpara, was recognized for his achievement. He was awarded a prize from Prime Minister of Pakistan in 2015. Faqeer Zulfiqar got the Pride of Performance Award from the government in 2020. The local government introduced music classes and scholarships for the folk and classical musicians in Punjab Institute of Language, Art and Culture. Sarah became a beacon of hope, a role model and voice of trans society in Pakistan. By telling these untold stories, I hope to give a voice to the free thinkers of my country. For me, this is an achievement and an act of defiance at the same time. Documentary is a space for debate, a space for dialogue, a means to challenge the darkness of this society. And there is so much darkness around us. Our internal fire and spark is the only way to eradicate it. And that is my power to continue. Thank you. (Applause)