Nestled in the remote forests  of northern Canada sits the world’s longest beaver dam. Curving around the water  like a castle wall, this 850-meter-long structure is large  enough to be seen in satellite imagery. The dam and the generations  of North American beavers that maintain it have dramatically transformed the region, creating a pond containing roughly  70,000,000 liters of water. This is a suitably sizable home for the  creators of this woodland kingdom. But even dams 1/100th the size of this one can have huge impacts  on their environment. So how exactly do beavers  redesign the forest, and how do they build these  impressive structures in the first place? Consider this beaver  in the northwestern US. Standing just under 2 feet tall, he’s a proud representative of the  world’s second largest rodent species. While he’s at risk to predators on land,  once he’s built a lodge, he’ll have a massive moat  to keep him safe. But he can’t just build a dam anywhere. Following the sounds of running water, our beaver searches heavily wooded areas to find a medium-sized stream  that’s not too steep or too deep. After abandoning one construction site due to its rocky floor, he finds a stream with a soft,  muddy bottom. Combining vegetation, mud, and sticks, he creates a small bank  along the stream’s edge. Then, using a bite almost 3 times stronger than any other mammal of this size, our beaver chews nearby logs  into sturdy sticks. He then rolls them into the water and  spikes them down into the soft streambed. Beaver dams come in several shapes, but our beaver opts for a concave dam  to dissipate the forceful flowing water, and layers in large rocks  to reinforce areas where water flows the strongest. Depending on a dam’s length,  the stream’s speed, and the number of beavers on the job, these devoted architects  can build shockingly fast. In some cases where humans  tried to remove dams, beavers have rebuilt them overnight— sometimes rebuilding larger  than they were before. Like most dams, our beaver’s project is just a couple meters long. And working alone, this dam could take several days to complete. But once the structure spans the channel, his watery home begins to fill up. As the pond grows, he’ll extend the dam to block water  flowing around the sides. However, some is permitted  to leak downstream, releasing pressure on the dam  and regulating the pond’s water levels. The larger the pond, the larger the beaver’s territory. And since they can hold their breath  for up to 15 minutes, beavers can easily access food  along the shorelines. Throughout the fall, our beaver builds  up an impressive supply for winter— while also looking for someone  to share it with. Beavers are fiercely territorial,  but they also bond for life. When the pond freezes over, our new beaver couple splits their time between making trips to the food cache with their lodge’s private entrance and starting a family. Come summertime, the juveniles will help  reinforce and expand their dam, gather food,  and watch their younger siblings. After 2 to 3 years, these young beavers will disperse  to find territory and mates of their own. But their ancestral dam  can last for decades. Maintenance work is continued  by descendants of the original colony, or new beavers that move in when the reigning family leaves. There’s certainly no shortage  of neighbors— some regions have as many as 40  beaver dams per kilometer of stream. This is great news  for surrounding wildlife that rely heavily on these  semi-aquatic engineers. Lodges can serve as nesting sites and refuges for various species of waterfowl. Beaver channels also connect  bodies of water, increasing the biodiverse areas between water and land. Humans benefit from beaver construction  projects too. Their ponds help replenish  groundwater stores, in part by creating large expanses  of surface water. And just like their manmade counterparts, beaver dams slow floodwaters. So just by following  their natural instincts, these ecosystem engineers create  huge impacts downstream.