In the early 20th century, a meteorologist named Alfred Wegener noticed striking similarities between the coasts  of Africa and South America. These observations led him to propose a controversial new theory: perhaps these and many other continents had once been connected in a single, gigantic landmass. Wegener’s Theory of Continental Drift  directly contradicted the popular opinion that Earth’s continents had  remained steady for millennia, and it took almost 50 years  for his advocates to convince the larger  scientific community. But today, we know something even more exciting— Pangea was only the latest  in a long lineage of supercontinents, and it won’t be the last. Continental Drift laid the foundation  for our modern theory of plate tectonics, which states that Earth’s crust  is made of vast, jagged plates that shift over a layer of partially  molten rock called the mantle. These plates only move at rates  of around 2.5 to 10 centimeters per year, but those incremental movements shape the planet's surface. So to determine when a new  supercontinent will emerge, we need to predict where these plates are headed. One approach here is to look  at how they’ve moved in the past. Geologists can trace the position  of continents over time by measuring changes  in Earth’s magnetic field. When molten rock cools,  its magnetic minerals are “frozen” at a specific point in time. So by calculating the  direction and intensity of a given rock’s magnetic field, we can discover the latitude at which  it was located at the time of cooling. But this approach has serious limitations. For one thing, a rock’s magnetic field doesn’t tell us the plate’s longitude, and the latitude measurement  could be either north or south. Worse still, this magnetic data gets erased when the rock is reheated, like during continental collisions or volcanic activity. So geologists need to employ other methods to reconstruct the continents’ positions. Dating local fossils and comparing them  to the global fossil record can help identifying  previously connected regions. The same is true of cracks and other deformations in the Earth's crust, which can sometimes be traced across plates. Using these tools, scientists have pieced together a relatively reliable history of plate movements, and their research revealed a pattern spanning hundreds of millions of years. What’s now known as the Wilson Cycle predicts how continents  diverge and reassemble. And it currently predicts  the next supercontinent will form 50 to 250 million years from now. We don’t have much certainty  on what that landmass will look like. It could be a new Pangea that emerges from the closing of the Atlantic. Or it might result from the formation of a new Pan-Asian ocean. But while its shape and size remain a mystery, we do know these changes will impact much more than our national borders. In the past, colliding plates have caused major environmental upheavals. When the Rodinia supercontinent  broke up circa 750 million years ago, it left large landmasses  vulnerable to weathering. This newly exposed rock absorbed  more carbon dioxide from rainfall, eventually removing so much  atmospheric CO2 that the planet was plunged into a period called Snowball Earth. Over time, volcanic activity released enough CO2 to melt this ice, but that process took another 4 to 6 million years. Meanwhile, when the next  supercontinent assembles, it's more likely to heat things up. Shifting plates and continental collisions could create and enlarge cracks in the Earth’s crust, potentially releasing huge amounts  of carbon and methane into the atmosphere. This influx of greenhouse gases would rapidly heat the planet, possibly triggering a mass extinction. The sheer scale of these cracks would make them almost impossible to plug, and even if we could, the resulting pressure would just create new ruptures. Fortunately, we have at least 50 million years to come up with a solution here, and we might already be onto something. In Iceland, recently conducted trials  were able to store carbon in basalt, rapidly transforming these gases into stone. So it’s possible a global network of pipes could redirect vented gases  into basalt outcrops, mitigating some of our emissions now and protecting our supercontinental future.