Hi, I'm Elena Crescia. I'm the curator and organizer of TEDxSãoPaulo, and I'm based in São Paulo, Brazil. I'm here with Cristina Junqueira. She’s the cofounder of a tech company that provides financial services. Together with her cofounders, David Vélez and Edward Wible, they created a digital platform to provide more access to financial services, to individuals and then, of course, having impact in their communities. Welcome, Cristina, thank you so much for your time to have a conversation with us. And let's start from the very beginning. Can you tell us what was the banking industry like when you started, and what made you have the courage to start something as ambitious as a new bank? Cristina Junqueira: Of course, David has a great story that he'll tell people about before starting Nubank that he went to one of those, you know, big branches in one of the financial centers here in São Paulo. And, of course, he had to go through bulletproof revolving doors and stripe, like all the other things that he carried with him and put all his possessions in a locker, and there were like, armed guards, so it felt a little bit like going to prison, you know, and that you were being treated like a criminal. And then after he got into the branch, of course, he waited for hours until he got somebody's attention. And of course, like, he didn't get to open an account that day, it took days and a lot of paperwork, a lot of bureaucracy. So it was just a very, very bad customer experience for sure. Like, digital means were not accessible for simple things like opening an account or even, you know, solving simple issues that you may have with your account or credit card. EC: So what did you do about it? CJ: So when we first started talking about this -- and David came at this opportunity coming from the investment side, right? So he worked for this big venture capital fund that was looking for opportunities to back entrepreneurs in Latin America. And he couldn't understand why there was just so much complexity, so much money being made by the incumbent banks. And no one was tackling this opportunity, bringing in technology to do things differently. And the reason why no one did is because, like, everyone thought that this industry was somehow sacred, you know, that it was just impossible to compete with them. So after we started working together, him and I, we talked to a lot of people in the market, too, and we heard from everyone and their mothers that this was impossible, that there was no way that we could compete, that they wouldn't let us, that they were just too powerful. And of course, that just made us want to do it more. And the way that we went about it, how we thought about this, was we needed to use technology in a very different manner. We needed to, first of all, to kick off the company with, sure, a very customer-centric mindset, which is, I guess, more subjective. But objectively, we knew that we needed to build a very modern, like, very agile tech platform just to support the products that we would build. And we also knew that we needed to build for data. You know, we needed to build for automation. We needed, from the beginning, to structure the way that we would capture and store data and process data in a much more modern way so that we could then use that data to do better credit underwriting, to do better automation, to do better routing of customer inquiries. Like, everything that we do currently is powered by data. And that's what has allowed us, even as a newcomer, without having decades of, you know, credit underwriting history, to be able to even perform better credit underwriting than the incumbent banks do. So there was a lot of thinking, again, not just about putting customers first, like from a design standpoint, but also deep thinking into the technology and data pieces. EC: How have you disrupted the banking industry so far? Like, what are the changes that you see even banks adopting because you exist? CJ: So it's funny because I was telling you the story about how it was, what it looked like when we first started, and it's very different from what it is today. I guess in the beginning they were kind of like, waiting to, you know, looking at us and kind of waiting to see if this was going to, you know, resist after all, if we were going to stick around. And of course, they thought we were all crazy letting people open accounts and apply for credit cards through a smartphone. And how would we do that? Now, like, you fast forward almost nine and a half years later, they're all doing that. You know, they're opening digital accounts, they're all using smartphones for a lot of what they do. So there was a lot of catching up that they played and just embracing the digital world and people's needs to -- Even after the pandemic, especially after the pandemic, right? Because if it was already, like, inconvenient to go to a bank branch before the pandemic, during the pandemic it became like, a health hazard, you know, for you to get exposed, for you to leave your home and to stand in a line in that little space, like, for hours, you know. So that really sped up the process of digitalization for a lot of companies, including financial services. Now, of course, they're trying to catch up, but there's something that is very hard to copy, right? And when you asked me, like, how did you disrupt? Well, we taught everyone to open digital accounts and to service customers through apps. And sure, that's all nice. But the way that we've really been disrupting companies is through treating customers well. You know, it's the golden rule, right? Like, treating people like we want to be treated. And that's really like a culture shift, a mindset shift, and that's a much harder one to copy. You know, when you have 80, 90, 100, 1,000 employees in a company that is, like, 100 years old, that has been doing things like that for ages now, you know? So I think that's where the true competitive advantage lies. It's just culture, you know, it's how we think about things. EC: And how will other industries benefit from these lessons? Like do you see ... other companies in other industries being able to also take lessons from what you're doing? CJ: It's funny because over the years ... It's so funny. We've started to see that like, you know, some start-ups here, they’re like, "Oh, we want to be the Nubank of telecom," "We want to be the Nubank of healthcare," which is amazing, right? Like, when you become that type of reference for people. I think there's a lot that they can borrow for sure. It's amazing, especially in Latin America. I'm sure you you would agree, there's so much pain, there's so much consumer pain in all industries, you know. And our customers, like, they ask more from us. Like, every day I get messages, like, even personally on my social media, you know, people are like, "When are you going to have an airline?" "When are you going to open a utilities company? Because I can't handle those ..." It’s like we spoiled customers for everyone else, you know. Now this is the standard. So, you know, who knows? Never say never. Maybe in the future we are going to explore some of those possibilities. But where there's customer pain, there's room for a company to come in and put customers in the center and work backwards from that and use technology to improve their experiences. So I guess, yeah, a lot of industries can do that. EC: So it was customer pain that fueled your mission and your growth? CJ: Oh, absolutely. That's what we seek. That's what we pursue, customer pain, you know, there's a lot of -- And even internally, when we think about how to prioritize initiatives or features or products, right, because there's a lot to build still. You know, we're very early in the game. But one of the main criteria that we use, not just oh, how profitable you can be or the size of the market. It's like, how acute is the pain? Because the bigger the pain, the bigger our ability to differentiate ourselves, you know? So that's one of the key things that we do watch for. EC: Can you tell us an example of pain that became a product or a service? CJ: I think everything that we do is a little bit coming from that pain. One of the things that I hated was just to be redirected like, countless times, like through customer support and be, you know, put on hold like, forever. And so what we've done is we've automated a lot of what goes through customer support like in other companies. So what we do is like, most of the time, like 90 percent of the time, people don't even have to reach out to us, you know, when they have something that they need help with. Like a lot of the time, they can self-service through the smartphone. And that's not just because it's, "Oh, but it's cheaper." No, it's because people don't want to do, like, they want to help themselves. Like, they don't want to have to deal with customer support necessarily. Of course, if they have to, we’re going to be here for them, and we're going to do the best service that we possibly can, you know. But the beautiful thing is like, when either they can figure out for themselves or, which is something that we're doing more and more, we anticipate their needs, and we say something like, "Well, it looks like you're trying to do this," you know. "If that's what you're trying to do here's how you do it," you know. That's the type of experience we want to offer. EC: And what is the impact that you see on individuals and their communities or small businesses? CJ: Yeah, so there's a lot that we can even quantify of the impact that we've been making over the years. So last time that we did this math, I'm sure it is much higher now, we had already saved over 20 billion reais, meaning almost five billion dollars in fees over the years for our customers. And that's money that is going to the economy, you know, that's becoming food, that's becoming education or health care, whatever it is, but not like, bank fees, you know, that people are paying elsewhere, right? So that has a very transformational impact. The other thing is, there hasn't been necessarily a focus, but given that we're simple, that, you know, it goes through the smartphone and that we can afford to do because our cost structure is very light, we've been able to financially include a lot of people. We currently have like five, six million people that are customers at Nubank that had never had any type of contact with the financial system. They were completely at the margin, you know, and that now like, there's someone that is willing to serve them. The other aspect of this is like, even the people that were within the system, they didn't necessarily afford or they didn't necessarily have access to different products. So we have an insurance product today. Over 50 percent of our customers that have our insurance product had never had an insurance policy in their lives. So when you look at those numbers like, from an inclusion standpoint, you can see that there's a dramatic level of impact that has already been done and a lot of potential for us to continue to expand  that inclusion, not just in absolute numbers, but across Latin America, right, like, across the different countries that we're operating, and through multiple products too, you know. When people have access to a safety net like an insurance product or even to credit, their lives can be transformed in many different ways. They can become entrepreneurs, they can sometimes withstand some, you know, difficulties that they're going through in their family. So there's a lot more that we hope to be able to do for people's lives over the next years. EC: What are the strategies that Nubank has developed and that you would like other financial institutions to adopt? CJ: I think something that could be very transformational for all the countries that we operate in is for all the financial institutions to become much better at underwriting. So the truth is, over the years, since there was so little competition, the incumbent banks, they didn't have to be that good at doing that, you know, because they had their margins and they would just charge more. So when you look at a society and you lower the cost of capital, like the cost of credit, you know, and you increase the access to credit to a lot more people, you can see a lot of transformations going on. You can see increase in home ownership, you can see increase in entrepreneurship, you can see increase in small businesses, becoming bigger and employing more people. And that can be very transformational for a country. So to the degree that they could, you know, raise the bar on the underwriting side so that they could better segregate, you know, good payers from bad payers and therefore increase access at a lower cost to credit, which is what we're trying to do here, I think that would be very beneficial. That's something that I hope eventually they're going to be able to do. EC: Thank you so much, Cristina, it was such a pleasure. We can all now aspire and dream of a future with clients without pain thanks to you. Thank you so, so much. CJ: Thank you, thank you much. It was a pleasure. Bye.