Shielded from the gorgon’s  stone-cold gaze, Perseus crept through Medusa’s cave. When he reached her,  he took a deep breath, and in one sudden movement, drew his sickle  and brought it down on her neck. Medusa’s head rolled to the ground  and from her neck sprung two children. One of them was Chrysaor,  a giant wielding a golden sword; The other was the magnificent, white, winged horse, Pegasus. He was swifter than any other steed, and with the stomp of his hooves, he could alter mountains  and draw streams from dry rock. No bridle could contain him— until one fateful day. Bellerophon, prince of the Greek city-state of Corinth, seemed to have it all. But his ambitions exceeded his earthly circumstances. What he truly wanted was  to be a hero so great that the gods would welcome him on Mount Olympus. Bellerophon believed that Pegasus would be key in helping him reach such heights. One night,  he visited the temple of Athena, the goddess of war and wisdom, and prayed for the power  to appease the mighty animal. When Bellerophon woke,  he found a magical golden bridle, and sped to the fountain  that Pegasus drank from. As soon as the horse bent towards the water, Bellerophon jumped on his back and slipped the bridle on. Finally, Pegasus was subdued. With this conquest, Bellerophon felt that he was on his way to becoming a legendary hero. He trained for battle day and night. But one training session went horribly wrong, and Bellerophon mortally injured  his brother, Deliades. Disgraced, he was exiled to Argos,  where King Proetus purified him. Bellerophon was resolved  to repair his reputation, but the Queen of Argos had her eye on him. And when Bellerophon rebuffed her advances, she accused him of trying to seduce her, further tarnishing his honor. King Proetus soon devised a plan to exact revenge. He banished Bellerophon and Pegasus  and sent them to the kingdom of Lycia, carrying a note to Iobates, Lycia’s king. But unbeknownst to Bellerophon, he was carrying a decree for his own death. Iobates considered how to dispose of the youth and picked just the right monster for the job: the fire-breathing lion-goat-dragon  Chimera that had long been terrorizing his kingdom. Bellerophon— eager to achieve greatness— jumped at the challenge. He mounted Pegasus, and the two shot into the sky. Swooping above the earth, they saw the  Chimera surrounded by its charred victims. Soon, they too were facing its firepower. In a sequence of agile aerial acrobatics, Pegasus dodged every blast from the Chimera as Bellerophon launched his arrows. Finally, Pegasus closed in on the beast at just the right angle, and Bellerophon dealt it a deadly blow. Iobates was incredulous. He was glad to be rid of the monster,  but still needed to deal with Bellerophon. So, he set forth more challenges, putting Bellerophon up against  fearsome warriors, highly skilled archers, and, ultimately, Lycia’s best soldiers. Every time, Pegasus’ power turned the tide in Bellerophon’s favor. Finally, Iobates had no choice  but to  concede that Bellerophon was a true hero. He even offered him  his daughter’s hand in marriage. But Bellerophon’s sights were set far beyond the land of mortals. He was certain he must now be entitled to a place on Mount Olympus. So, he jumped onto Pegasus  and urged him higher and higher. Zeus watched as Bellerophon, buoyed by hubris, neared his palace. To punish the youth,  he released a single gadfly, which beelined towards Pegasus  and bit into his flesh. This was as high  as Bellerophon would ever get. As Pegasus flinched,  he flung his rider into the air, and Bellerophon fell careening back to Earth. Pegasus, on the other hand,  ascended with Zeus’s blessing. The gods welcomed him into the halls  of Mount Olympus and immortalized him in a constellation. There in the night sky,  Pegasus can be seen soaring, unfettered and free.