It was Christmas time in Camelot  and King Arthur was throwing a party. The entire court was invited— save the wicked sorceress Morgan le Fay— and food and drink flowed freely. But in the midst of the revelry, the castle doors split open. A towering knight riding an emerald steed burst into the room, stunning the court into silence. Then, in a deep bellowing voice, he proposed a game. The Green Knight declared he would allow the bravest warrior present to attack him with his own axe. If they could strike him down,  they would win his powerful weapon. However, the knight would be allowed to return that blow in one year and one day. Arthur and his knights were baffled. No man could survive such a strike. The Green Knight began to mock their leader’s hesitance, and Arthur stood to defend his honor. But as soon as he gripped the axe, another leapt to take his place. Arthur’s nephew, Sir Gawain, took the weapon instead. And with one swift strike, he beheaded the grinning knight. But the moment his skull met the ground, it began to laugh. The Green Knight collected his head  and mounted his horse. As he rode off, his severed head reminded Gawain of their contract and told him to seek the Green Chapel one year hence. In the months that followed, Gawain tried to forget this bizarre vision. But despite the strangeness of the knight’s game, he was determined to act honorably. When the following winter approached, he set out— enduring foul weather  and beastly encounters in his quest to find  the mysterious Green Chapel. Finally, on Christmas Eve, he saw  a shimmering castle on the horizon. The castle’s lord and lady were thrilled to help such an honorable guest, and informed him that the Green Chapel was only a short ride away. They implored Gawain to rest at their home until his meeting with the Green Knight. Thrilled at this news, Gawain happily accepted their offer. However, in exchange  for their hospitality, the lord made a strange request. Over the next three days, he would go hunting and share his spoils every night. In return, Gawain must give him whatever he’d gained during his day at the castle. At first, Gawain was perplexed by these strange terms. But the lord’s meaning became quite clear the next day, when his wife tried to seduce Gawain. To rebuff the lady’s advances  without offending her honor, Gawain allowed one kiss— which he then passed on to her husband in exchange for a slain dear. The next day, Gawain allowed two kisses, which he gave to the lord for a dead boar. But on the third day, the lady offered more than just three kisses. She presented a magical sash  that would protect Gawain from the Green Knight’s blade. Gawain accepted immediately,  but that evening, when the lord returned, the knight offered only three kisses  with no mention of his enchanted gift. The next morning, Gawain rode  out to the Green Chapel— a simple mound of earth where the Green Knight  ominously sharpened an axe. With the sash’s protection,  Gawain approached stoically— determined to honor his agreement. He bowed his head for the deadly blow, and with a massive swing, the Green Knight cut Gawain’s neck— inflicting nothing more than a flesh wound. Once more, Gawain was bewildered. Why hadn’t the sash protected him? And why hadn’t the knight  killed him? Bursting into laughter, the Green Knight  revealed himself to be the castle’s lord, and he’d been working with Morgan Le Fay to test the honor and bravery  of Arthur’s knights. He was impressed with Gawain’s behavior, and he’d planned to spare  his neck entirely— until Gawain concealed the sash. Filled with shame,  Gawain returned to Camelot. But to his surprise,  his companions absolved him of blame and celebrated his valor. Struggling to understand  this strange journey, it seemed to Gawain that perhaps  the whole world was playing a game— with rules more wild and bewildering than any man could understand.