As of 2020, the world’s biggest  lithium-ion battery is hooked up to the Southern California  power grid and can provide 250 million watts  of power, or enough to power about 250,000 homes. But it’s actually not the biggest battery in the world: these lakes are. Wait— how can a pair of lakes  be a battery? To answer that question,  it helps to define a battery: it’s simply something that stores energy and releases it on demand. The lithium-ion batteries that power  our phones, laptops, and cars are just one type. They store energy in lithium ions. To release the energy, the ions  are separated from their electrons, then rejoined at the other end  of the battery as a new molecule with lower energy. How do the two lakes  store and release energy? First, one is 300 meters higher  than the other. Electricity powers pumps that move billions of liters of water from the lower lake to the higher one. This stores the energy by giving the water extra gravitational potential energy. Then, when there’s high demand for electricity, valves open, releasing the stored energy  by letting water flow downhill to power 6 giant turbines that can  generate 3 billion watts of power for 10 hours. We’re going to need more and more  giant batteries. That’s because right now, generating enough electricity to power the world produces an unsustainable amount  of greenhouse gas: 14 billion tons per year. We’ll need to get that number  down to net-zero. But many clean energy sources  can’t produce electricity 24/7. So to make the switch, we need a way to store the electricity until it's needed. That means we need grid-scale batteries: batteries big enough  to power multiple cities. Unfortunately, neither of the giant batteries we’ve talked about so far can solve this problem. The two lakes setup requires specific geography, takes up a lot of land, and has high upfront costs to build. The giant lithium-ion battery in California, meanwhile, can power about 250,000 homes, yes, but only for an hour. Lithium-ion batteries are great for things that don’t use a lot of power. But to store a lot of energy,  they have to be huge and heavy. That’s why electric planes aren’t a thing: the best electric plane  can only carry two people for about 1,000 kilometers on one charge, or its batteries would be too heavy  to fly. A typical commercial jet can carry  300 people over 14,000 km before refueling. Lithium-ion batteries also require  certain heavy metals to make. These resources are limited, and mining them often causes environmental damage. Inventors all over the world are rising  to the challenge of making batteries that can meet  our needs— many of them even weirder  than the two lakes. One company is building  a skyscraper battery. When the sun is shining,  a crane powered by solar energy piles blocks on top of each other  in a tower. At night, the cranes let gravity pull the blocks down and use the resulting power  to spin generators. Though there have been some early setbacks, another promising approach involves heating up salts until they melt. The molten salt can be stored until  there’s a high demand for electricity, then used to boil water. The steam can power turbines that generate electricity. Another idea: bio-batteries made  from paper, powered by bacteria, and activated by spit. Bacteria release energy in the form  of electrons when they metabolize glucose, and at least one species of bacteria can transfer those electrons outside its cells, completing a circuit. While these batteries won’t power a city, or even a house, they don't have the waste and cost concerns of traditional batteries. From vast mountain lakes  to microscopic bacteria, from seawater batteries that bypass the need for heavy metals to nuclear batteries that power deep space missions, we're constantly rethinking what a battery can be. The next unlikely battery could be hiding in plain sight— just waiting to be discovered  and help us achieve a sustainable future.