They’ve passed every test, cleared every hurdle, jumped through every hoop. Now, all that remains is to unleash  them on the world. But wait— what’s this? Ah, yes, there’s one more challenge.  They must now across the valley of death. All new products must pass through  here before they reach the market. Many never make it out,  and sometimes that’s OK— if they don’t work, don’t fill a need,  or for any number of other reasons. But inventions that could help address massive global issues also face this risk. That’s because a technology’s potential isn’t the only factor that determines whether it will succeed. The valley of death is especially risky  for innovations involving complex physical objects  as opposed to software, and for those in highly regulated industries, like medicine, building materials,  and transportation. Regulations and other obstacles  aren’t inherently bad— they’re often designed to keep people safe— but they do tend to scare off investors, and that’s what traps good ideas  in the valley of death: their funding dries up before  they can become profitable. One of the fields where this problem  is most pressing today is zero-carbon technologies. They’re essential to our future because they will help us eliminate  greenhouse gas emissions and stabilize our climate. But they also have features that make  them particularly vulnerable in the valley of death. Let’s look at why that is,  and how we can change it. All new technologies must go  through a development phase before they can become profitable. For zero-carbon technologies, the costs of this phase are high, the timelines are long, and, in spite of the good they can do, demand is often low because they can  require big changes in both infrastructure  and consumer behavior. For example, electric heat pumps don’t burn fossil fuels and, when you factor in savings on energy use, are cost-competitive with gas furnaces, but homeowners only change their heating and cooling systems every few decades. Direct air capture technologies,  meanwhile, remove CO2 directly from the atmosphere. We need these technologies  to reach our emissions goals, and several of them have already been proven to work, but they’re at risk of getting trapped  in the valley of death because they're expensive. This creates a vicious cycle because  the best way to lower costs is by, well, practicing:  making more of a product and refining it. But high initial costs  scare off investors, and without their money, companies can’t continue to develop  their technologies— and can't ultimately decrease costs. Fortunately, there’s a way to break this cycle: governments can help close the gap, when private investors won’t fund technologies with such a high potential  for social benefit. This isn’t just theoretical: in the 1990s,  functioning solar panels existed, but weren’t widely adopted  because of their cost. To change this, Germany offered government loans to companies creating solar panels, and legally obligated utility companies to buy electricity produced  using renewable energy. The U.S. and China followed suit  by financing major solar panel projects. The cost of solar has dropped  almost 90% since 2009, making it much easier to adopt. A similar thing happened for wind energy: during the oil crisis of the 1970s, Denmark invested in wind power and started taxing winds’  fossil fuel-based competitors. Other countries took similar steps, and as more wind power was generated worldwide, the costs of this technology dropped dramatically. These success stories tell us  that government initiatives work— initiatives like boosting spending  on research and development, offering tax and loan incentives  to startups that want to develop  zero-carbon technologies and consumers who want to buy them, and putting a price on carbon emissions. We need governments to do what they did for solar and wind for many more innovations. At the end of the day,  ideas and inventions alone can’t solve our most daunting problems— policies and markets have to be shaped so the most promising technologies can succeed.