As the space telescope prepares to snap a photo, the light of the nearby star blocks its view. But the telescope  has a trick up its sleeve: a massive shield to block the glare. This starshade has a diameter  of about 35 meters— that folds down to just under 2.5 meters, small enough to carry  on the end of a rocket. Its compact design is based on an ancient art form. Origami, which literally translates to “folding paper,” is a Japanese practice dating back to at least the 17th century. In origami, the same simple concepts yield everything from a paper crane  with about 20 steps, to this dragon with over 1,000 steps, to a starshade. A single, traditionally square sheet  of paper can be transformed into almost  any shape, purely by folding. Unfold that sheet, and there’s a pattern of lines, each of which represents a concave  valley fold or a convex mountain fold. Origami artists arrange these folds  to create crease patterns, which serve as blueprints  for their designs. Though most origami models are three dimensional, their crease patterns are usually designed to fold flat without introducing any new creases  or cutting the paper. The mathematical rules behind  flat-foldable crease patterns are much simpler than those behind  3D crease patterns— it’s easier to create an abstract 2D design and then shape it into a 3D form. There are four rules that any  flat-foldable crease pattern must obey. First, the crease pattern must be two-colorable— meaning the areas between creases can be filled with two colors so that areas of the same color never touch. Add another crease here, and the crease pattern no longer displays two-colorability. Second, the number  of mountain and valley folds at any interior vertex must differ by exactly two— like the three valley folds  and one mountain fold that meet here. Here’s a closer look at what happens  when we make the folds at this vertex. If we add a mountain fold at this vertex, there are three valleys and two mountains. If it’s a valley, there are four valleys  and one mountain. Either way, the model doesn’t fold flat. The third rule is that if we number  all the angles at an interior vertex moving  clockwise or counterclockwise, the even-numbered angles must add up to 180 degrees, as must the odd-numbered angles. Looking closer at the folds,  we can see why. If we add a crease and number  the new angles at this vertex, the even and odd angles no longer add up to 180 degrees, and the model doesn’t fold flat. Finally, a layer cannot penetrate a fold. A 2D, flat-foldable base is often an abstract representation of a final 3D shape. Understanding the relationship between crease patterns, 2D bases, and the final 3D form  allows origami artists to design incredibly complex shapes. Take this crease pattern  by origami artist Robert J. Lang. The crease pattern allocates areas for a creature's legs, tail, and other appendages. When we fold the crease pattern into this flat base, each of these allocated areas becomes a separate flap. By narrowing, bending, and sculpting  these flaps, the 2D base becomes a 3D scorpion. Now, what if we wanted to fold 7 of these  flowers from the same sheet of paper? If we can duplicate  the flower’s crease pattern and connect each of them in such a way that all four laws are satisfied, we can create a tessellation,  or a repeating pattern of shapes that covers a plane  without any gaps or overlaps. The ability to fold a large surface  into a compact shape has applications  from the vastness of space to the microscopic world of our cells. Using principles of origami, medical engineers have re-imagined the traditional stent graft, a tube used to open and support  damaged blood vessels. Through tessellation, the rigid tubular  structure folds into a compact sheet about half its expanded size. Origami principles have been used in airbags, solar arrays, self-folding robots,  and even DNA nanostructures— who knows what possibilities will unfold next.