Priyanka Chopra Jonas: Young people are asking us to act now. One such person is Miao Wang, a United Nations young champion who leads Better Blue, an ocean conservation organization. She has a message for all of us from her home in China. [Miao Wang] Miao Wang: People sometimes ask why young people are urgently calling for change. We are calling for change, because we know it is possible. I have seen firsthand benefits of scientists restoring coral reefs and bringing back reef life. Imagine a world where the air is fresh; where everyone has access to clean energy we need to cook, live and learn; where the most vulnerable are cared for; where our cities are protected from rising sea levels and where forests are protected and rewilded. That's why, along with many of my generation, I'm calling on leaders to act with speed and urgency to create a future that is fairer and healthier for all people everywhere and for our planet. Thank you. Chris Hemsworth: During the first session a few hours ago, the UN Secretary General mentioned an initiative called the Race to Zero. I want to come back to that for a moment because it's the crucial race for humanity and it requires governments, cities, businesses and all of us to work together. To tell us more I want to bring in the United Kingdom Secretary of State for business, energy and industrial strategy, Alok Sharma, who's also a president of the United Nation's climate conference COP26 which will take place in Glasgow next year. [Alok Sharma] Alok Sharma: As we recover from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the world has the opportunity to build a healthier and more resilient future, to create a fairer and thriving society and to reduce the risk of future shocks. Many organizations and institutions have already stepped up to the plate. They have made specific science-based commitments to a net-zero world. As of the end of September, over 1,100 major companies have committed to net-zero emissions by 2050 at the latest, sourcing 100 percent renewable electricity, flipping their fleets to electric vehicles, making their buildings more energy efficient and working with their suppliers to drive down their emissions. Forty-five of the world's largest investors are committed to ensure they invest responsibly. 452 cities, 22 regions, 549 universities around the world have joined the Race to Zero, and many more are preparing to do so. But we need to go further. Between now and the UN Climate Conference, COP26, in November 2021, we want to accelerate the pace across the global economy. We're at a turning point. We don't have time to waste. And you can help by making sure that the company or community where you work joins the race today. PCJ: Thank you so much, Alok. The Race to Zero is a race we'll win or lose together. No one better than a climate champion to describe what that means. His official title indeed is high-level climate action champion of the United Kingdom for next year's United Nations climate conference. Please welcome Nigel Topping. [Nigel Topping] Nigel Topping: I want to tell you why this is a race we can win. We can see the pathways to zero in every sector, from cement and steel to shipping and aviation. Yes, there remain technical problems to be solved, but they are known, well-defined. And this is what engineers exist for. We have courageous leaders in every sector of the economy who have committed to transforming their entire value chain to win their own race to zero. 2050 is the target for LafargeHolcim, the world's largest cement company, and for Maersk shipping. 2040 is the target for Amazon, and 2039, for the inventor of the first automotive internal combustion engine, Mercedes, and 2030 for Apple and for Brazilian cosmetics company Natura. If they can do it, then so can all their competitors. And we know the shape of industrial transformation: every transition -- from horses to cars, from valves to transistors, from analog to digital film and now from combustion engines to electric vehicles -- takes a long time to kick off, then turns exponential before plateauing at full market adoption. We see this exponential growth starting to ratchet up in sector after sector as volumes go up and costs go down. Don't pay attention to anyone who tells you, "But it's only got to four percent of the market." The key question is: how quickly did that figure double from two percent to four percent? That doubling time is what stays constant in exponential growth. So if it's two years, then that's the key, and the market share will double to 8, 16, 32, 64, and the transition will be over within 10 years. We know how to win the Race to Zero, but we'll only do so if many, many more of you join -- every business, investor, city, region and country, every school, university, sports club and citizen. Can we count you in? CH: You sure can, Nigel, I'm definitely in, mate.