My name is Sevidzem Ernestine Leikeki. I'm a climate activist from the North-West Region of Cameroon. I focus on two things: caring for nature and educating the next generation to do the same. We can't fight the climate emergency if we cannot protect and regenerate our land. That's why my colleagues and I at Cameroon Gender and Environment Watch are dedicated to regenerating the 20,000-hectare Kilum-Ijim Forest. My community of 300,000 people depends on nature for livelihood. We find daily solutions in our forest and in our farmlands. But our natural resources face a lot of challenges: deforestation, over-exploitation, encroachment and poor soil conservation. And these are made worse by gender inequality, cultural barriers and little or no knowledge about the goodness of nature. Worst of them are the devastating bushfires. To make sure that this forest continues to exist into the future, we work to educate our children that if they protect the forest, it will, in turn, support them. We educate our children what it means to love nature and treat it with care. I call that "raising a forest generation." To date, my organization has provided environmental education to more than 50,000 people in the Kilum-Ijim Forest area, 60 percent of them women. We have child-friendly sessions every week in our nurseries about the trees found in our forest and how to take care of them. Through community radio, we reach out to many people. We also develop economic opportunities. We have trained over 2,000 people in the Kilum-Ijim Forest area in bee farming. When we recruit bee farmers, that's a chance to rebalance opportunities. We give two beehives to women and one to men. We also teach them about honey production, beeswax extraction, making honey wine and honey juice, and making detergents and lotions out of beeswax. When they tend their hives, the community keeps an eye out for bushfires. And the income from bee farming means they can plant more trees. It's a powerful equation. Honey equals income, equals jobs, equals gender equality, equals conservation. As of 2020, we have planted 86,000 trees to regenerate the Kilum-Ijim Forest. Nature remains our greatest ally to reach our climate mitigation targets. Planting trees is essential, but we need to raise a forest generation that will thrive and live in harmony with nature. Thank you.