From 2016 to 2019, meteorologists saw record-breaking heat waves around the globe, rampant wildfires  in California and Australia, and the longest run  of category 5 tropical cyclones on record. The number of extreme weather events has been increasing for the last 40 years, and current predictions suggest  that trend will continue. But are these natural disasters  simply bad weather? Or are they due to our changing climate? To answer this question we need to understand the differences between weather and climate— what they are, how we predict them, and what those predictions can tell us. Meteorologists define weather  as the conditions of the atmosphere at a particular time and place. Currently, researchers can predict  a region’s weather for the next week with roughly 80% accuracy. Climate describes a region’s  average atmospheric conditions over periods of a month or more. Climate predictions can forecast  average temperatures for decades to come, but they can’t tell us what specific weather events to expect. These two types of predictions  give us such different information because they’re based on different data. To forecast weather, meteorologists need to measure  the atmosphere’s initial conditions. These are the current levels  of precipitation, air pressure, humidity, wind speed and wind direction  that determine a region’s weather. Twice every day, meteorologists  from over 800 stations around the globe release balloons into the atmosphere. These balloons carry instruments  called radiosondes, which measure initial conditions and transmit their findings  to international weather centers. Meteorologists then run the data  through predictive physics models that generate the final weather forecast. Unfortunately, there’s something stopping this global web of data from producing a perfect prediction: weather is a fundamentally  chaotic system. This means it’s incredibly sensitive  and impossible to perfectly forecast without absolute knowledge  of all the system’s elements. In a period of just ten days, even incredibly small disturbances can massively impact atmospheric conditions— making it impossible to reliably  predict weather beyond two weeks. Climate prediction, on the other hand, is far less turbulent. This is partly because a region’s climate  is, by definition, the average of all its weather data. But also because climate forecasts ignore what’s currently happening  in the atmosphere, and focus on the range  of what could happen. These parameters are known  as boundary conditions, and as their name suggests, they act as constraints on climate and weather. One example of a boundary condition is solar radiation. By analyzing the precise distance  and angle between a location and the sun, we can determine the amount of heat that area will receive. And since we know how the sun  behaves throughout the year, we can accurately predict  its effects on temperature. Averaged across years of data, this reveals periodic patterns, including seasons. Most boundary conditions have well-defined values that change slowly, if at all. This allows researchers to reliably  predict climate years into the future. But here’s where it gets tricky. Even the slightest change  in these boundary conditions represents a much larger shift  for the chaotic weather system. For example, Earth’s surface temperature has warmed by almost 1 degree Celsius over the last 150 years. This might seem like a minor shift, but this 1-degree change  has added the energy equivalent of roughly one million  nuclear warheads into the atmosphere. This massive surge of energy  has already led to a dramatic increase in the number of heatwaves,  droughts, and storm surges. So, is the increase in extreme weather due to random chance, or changing climate? The answer is that— while weather will always  be a chaotic system— shifts in our climate do increase  the likelihood of extreme weather events. Scientists are in near universal agreement that our climate is changing and that human activity  is accelerating those changes. But fortunately, we can identify what human behaviors are impacting the climate most by tracking which boundary conditions  are shifting. So even though next month’s weather  might always be a mystery, we can work together to protect the climate for centuries to come.