In the early 1900s on the island of Crete, British archaeologist Sir Arthur Evans  uncovered nearly 3,000 tablets inscribed with strange symbols. He thought these symbols represented the language spoken by Europe’s oldest civilization. Their meaning would elude scholars  for 50 years. Evans discovered these tablets  amid the colorful frescoes and maze-like hallways of the palace of Knossos. He called the civilization Minoan— after the mythical Cretan ruler,  King Minos. He thought the script, dubbed Linear B, represented the Minoan language, and scholars all over the world  came up with their own theories. Was it the lost language of the Etruscans? Or perhaps it represented  an early form of Basque? The mystery intensified because Evans guarded the tablets closely–– only 200 of the inscriptions  were published during his lifetime–– but he couldn’t decipher the script. However, he did make  two accurate observations: the tablets were administrative records, and the script was a syllabary, where each symbol represented  both a consonant and a vowel, mixed with characters  that each represented a whole word. Evans worked on Linear B for three decades before a scholar from Brooklyn, New York, named Alice Kober  set out to solve the mystery. Kober was a professor  of Classics at Brooklyn College when few women held such positions. To help in her quest, she taught herself many languages–– knowledge she knew she would need  to decipher Linear B. For the next two decades,  she analyzed the symbols. Working from the few  available inscriptions, she recorded how often  each symbol appeared. Then she recorded how frequently  each symbol appeared next to another. She stored her findings on scrap paper  in cigarette cartons because writing supplies were scarce  during the Second World War. By analyzing these frequencies, she discovered that Linear B  relied on word endings to give its sentences grammar. From this she began to build a chart  of the relations between the signs, coming closer than anyone before  to deciphering Linear B. But she died, probably of cancer,  in 1950 at the age of 43. While Kober was analyzing  the Knossos tablets, an architect named Michael Ventris  was also working to crack Linear B. He had become obsessed with Linear B as a schoolboy after hearing Evans speak. He even worked on deciphering  the script while serving in World War II. After the war, Ventris  built on Kober’s grid using a newly published cache  of Linear B inscriptions excavated from a different archeological site called Pylos, on mainland Greece. His real breakthrough came  when he compared the tablets from Pylos with those from Knossos and saw that certain words appeared on tablets from one site but not the other. He wondered if those words represented the names of places specific to each location. He knew that over centuries, place names tend to remain constant, and decided to compare Linear B to an ancient syllabary  from the island of Cyprus. The Cypriot script was used  hundreds of years after Linear B, but some of the symbols were similar— he wondered if the sounds  would be similar, too. When Ventris plugged some of the sounds  of the Cypriot syllabary into the Linear B inscriptions, he came up with the word Knossos, the name of the city where Evans  had discovered his tablets. In a domino effect,  Ventris unraveled Linear B, with each word revealing more clearly  that the language of Linear B was not Minoan, but Greek. Ventris died in a car crash four years  later, at the age of 34. But his discovery rewrote  a chapter of history. Evans had insisted that the Minoans  conquered the mainland Greeks, and that was why examples of Linear B  were found on the mainland. But the discovery that Linear B  represented Greek, and not Minoan, showed that the opposite had happened: mainland Greeks invaded Crete and adopted the Minoan script for their own language. But the story isn’t over yet. The actual language of the Minoans, represented by another script  called Linear A, has yet to be deciphered. It remains a mystery— at least for now.