Hello, I am going to be joined shortly  by Dr. Ahmad Hasnah. Dr. Hasnah is the President  of Hamad Bin Khalifa University in Doha, a member of the Qatar Foundation. Qatar Foundation and TED are launching a partnership to develop a multiyear initiative  called TED (Arabic), TEDinArabic. The aim is to provide a platform  for thinkers, scientists, artists to share their ideas in Arabic. We actually have  many TED Talks on our sites translated and subtitled into Arabic, and there have been many TEDx events all across the Arab world. But this is the first TED initiative specifically focused  on the Arabic language. We are going to discuss that, and we are going to discuss  the future of education, and more. Dr. Hasnah, welcome. How are you? I'm fine, thank you, Bruno. It's a pleasure being with you  and with the TED community. So, let me start  for those who are not aware of the work of the Qatar Foundation. Tell us a bit about the purpose  of the Foundation and also briefly about the role  of Hamad Bin Khalifa University within it. Thank you very much. The Foundation started around 25 years ago with the mission of really investing  in the human capital, believing that any development,  whether it's economic or social, is going to be based  on education and research. And that's why the Foundation  has started launching a high-quality educational program and invested in research education creating critical thinking,  the ability of the people to really challenge ideas and really to be able to create  a mindset of a new generation that is going to be really supporting  the development of the region. So, the Foundation's mission  was not only related to Qatar, but it is more toward the entire region trying to support the Arab world by really providing an opportunity and inclusive educational, high-quality education aspect to the people in the region, believing that the road  for the development, the only way you can achieve  the future changing your status, is through education. And, of course, to be able  to do those elements it has been working with a lot of very high quality  education provider partnership, mainly from the US but from Europe, and trying to really be  very highly selective in the program that it is really related  to the needs of the region, but at the same time  on a very high quality, where the quality,  or maintaining the quality of the different program is not only the responsibility  of the Foundation, but it's also part  of the responsibility of the partner. To be able to do so,  Education City was created by building those partnerships  with an institution of high quality, by attracting the best college  or the best program per university. So, the whole idea was not really to attract one single university, the idea was to target  the high-quality program, the high-quality research institution  into Education City in specific areas of a very important  future development of the region. And the whole model is about not only graduating students, but it is related to the impact  that those quality institutions will have on the society and the public sector,  and the private sector by introducing change into the way the different sectors  of the society and the country and the region will function on. So, you need to look at Education City beyond only the number of students. It is really a more, if you would like, renaissance type of project  where you are really trying to reenergize everybody  within the society, whether the students,  whether the parents, whether the private sector,  whether in the public sector. And the other very important element in my opinion in that it was the really very inclusive project where in order for you  to join Education City it is really merit-based, it has nothing to do  with your economic status or your ability to afford the program. The Foundation has administrated a very generous financial aid  and scholarship because the idea was  to really attract the best of the best and provide them with the right education. Maybe we need to explain in two words  a couple of elements you used mentioned. So, I remember visiting Education City  about maybe eight years ago, and I was impressed  by the level of ambition, of trying to create not just a university  but a sort of ecosystem that brought schools and universities  and research centers all together. And what you mentioned before  about the partnerships with top-level colleges and universities translates actually  into specific universities that are at the top  of the rankings around the world, opening up faculties and departments within Education City. I remember, for example, some American universities running the Engineering Department, so that's the way it is developed. But let's talk about education. I think, even though education is the cornerstone of the entire work  of the Foundation, the Foundation was very keen  of building an entire ecosystem to provide the complete cycle  of the students going from K to 12 education,  into undergrad, into postgraduate, where Hamad Bin Khalifa University comes as a research-oriented,  research-intensive university and providing the ability  for the students to do their postgraduate into hosting research institute focusing on key challenges of the region, moving into the Science & Technology Park and the innovation and entrepreneurship, which are really a very important  elements of taking ideas into action and into really changing  the way the economy functions by encouraging more and more startups. So, if you take a look at Education City, you will find that City really encompasses all those, if you would like, factors of really building the future from education to research  to entrepreneurship and commercialization. Dr Hasnah, you are an educator, and, as we are having the conversation, we are about six months  into the COVID-19 pandemic, which has had a big impact on education - everything from closing schools to didactic plans  that have been sidetracked, teachers that have been challenged,  families have been challenged when students are at home,  et cetera, et cetera. What kind of experience  can we draw from these six months, and what kind of real learning scheme we put into thinking  about the future of education from these six months? So, I think every challenge  comes with an opportunity. And I think the pandemic  was really an eye-opener to all the educators to relook and reexamine  what they have been doing for years and whether this was really  the right model or not. And I think, even though  a lot of the universities, including ours, went immediately into a seamless - at least we have been lucky, I think the Foundation and HBKU  managed to go in a seamless way into online education. But we have all discovered  that online education providing lectures and slides  over the Internet, it is not really the end of the story. This is maybe not the best we could do. I think what we are thinking and when we are really relooking at  what we have learned from that experience, a lot of ideas comes to really  personalized learning, if you would like. How can you build a model  where a student getting to a university does not need to really enter at the same entering point, using the same amount of time or working exactly at the same time, which is really during the lecture [hold]? What could you do  in providing more options for your students to be able  to take classes across institutions? What can be done in really augmenting  your education and experience to the students, so they are really  not only getting the information, but they are building their soft skills and focusing on their soft skills? I think that the big question  that we still need to all work on when we speak about  reinventing higher education or rethinking about it, is not to settle  by saying, "Online education." I think the pandemic  has opened the horizon for everybody to relook at what we are really doing. Do formal degrees of a sense  of four years bachelor's degree is the way to go for the future? What does lifelong learning mean for people with a rapid change? How can we facilitate that  to people within their workplace? How we can shift careers? What can we do in order for us  to provide opportunities for each one of the students to learn at his own pace rather than being part  of only the class at large? There is a lot, I think,  that needs to be looked at. But one thing that I am sure about is we did not yet reach the end of that question in one end, and the second is that, no matter what we will do, part of that education equation has to always be that interaction between the students  among themselves and the faculty and the students. Maybe the format will change,  maybe the way it's going to change, maybe whether it is all  at the same time might be changing, but I think we are going to envision a different way of conducting business. I think one element that we all  really need to think about, when we talk about this, is that accessibility, inclusiveness is a challenge because there are a lot of countries today that do not have Internet access, they do not have the means  to be able to do online education. So, when we think about education, we cannot just think it  from our own setting. If we are really  going to look into models, we need to take care of those countries that are in need of education to change their life, and this is where what I'm saying related to what some  universities have started like MicroMasters or many bachelor's degrees are going to be in place because those require less costly,  less time of the people to be able to accomplish that, and then maybe the ability  of really educating more people without any further physical space. Let's talk a couple of minutes about research and science and innovation. So the Foundation is a key player in Qatar when it comes to funding and creating a context  for research and innovation. Can you tell us about what the Foundation  has built specifically in this field and what are the main areas of focus? So, research is a very key element of the Foundation. That's why it is called Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development So, science or research come actually in a very important pillar  of the Foundation, and from the inception,  the research aspect was crucial in the way the Foundation has even  attracted educational partners. All of those are research universities,  research partners. The Foundation believes that research is creating new ideas,  creating new content that are really going to do impact  in changing the country's economy and really moving toward the future. To be able to do so,  the Foundation understands carefully that you need to build  the research culture, you need to have the funding mechanism for which the Foundation has created the Qatar National Research Fund, which is really simulated  against National Science Foundation as a funding agency  that's really promoting research and also run a strategy,  a research on a strategic plan where it identifies what is really  the area where the country is in need and where we can make a difference,  locally and internationally. And as a result of that study, three major areas have been identified as a way of moving into the future. One which is really in ICT, in computing, in AI, in cybersecurity,  in Arabic language processing, in social networks. Second area is related  to energy and environment. We all know the challenge  that is facing not only the region, but internationally,  from climate change, air quality, water, and a lot of people speaking  about the future: dispute is going to be around water, energy and how you can really deal  with not only conventional energy, but how you can really make  a more sustainable energy for the future. And, of course, health,  which is really a very important element, of having a healthy population. And, you know,  because the region in general has a very high rate, when it comes  to diabetes and cancer, so there is a big focus when it comes  to research around diabetes and cancer and, if you would like, in neurosciences. All of that, it is not done  in a very conventional way, it's done in a very multidisciplinary way, where you have the ICT engaged  with biomedical, and so forth. So you are trying to create research teams that are really multidisciplinary, so they can support  and enhance each other's work. So the idea is really to have that focus, so you can really contribute into the development  of the future of the country. As you can see, those topics  are heavily imported locally, relevant locally, but they have  a global impact too. Everybody is worried about future energy, everybody is worried about  how you deal with cancer and diabetes, and all of that. And, of course, ICT is, needless to say, what's happening on the sphere  of social networks and cybersecurity and AI. Dr. Hasnah, you are the President  of Hamad Bin Khalifa University in Doha, which is part of Qatar Foundation but is a big institution  on its own right. Tell us a little about it. So, Hamad Bin Khalifa University,  which is a 10-year institution, came to complete the cycle  of education and research within the Foundation. So, as I said, the Education City has students from K to 12  and to undergrad. Hamad Bin Khalifa University  came as a research-intensive university, focusing on postgraduate studies to provide that ability to students to follow their ability of conducting  master and PhD degrees and believing that your postgraduate  is very essential in order for you to achieve the aspiration of the country  of a knowledge-based economy. When HBKU was created, it was created  on very important principles that wanted to distinguish  itself from the rest. One principle is related  to the multidisciplinary approach and the providing programs  and research aspects. As you know, a lot of the challenges,  a lot of the problems that we are facing  right now in the university are multidisciplinary  or interdisciplinary types of problems. You need to have students  while they are really heavily disciplined or very anchored in their disciplines. They need to understand  the well-rounded information around that problem, that challenge. So, for example, environment: it is not only engineering elements, it is behavioral elements,  it's an economical problem, it's a policy issue. So, we are trying to build  our educational program around the multidisciplinary  as very important elements. Second, it is around real-life type  of research aspects. We want our students to engage while they are in their education with research problems,  research challenges, that it is really an actual real-life  type of a challenge for them, and not only, if you would like, hypothetical problems. We want them to really be addressing an actual challenge. The third element,  which I think is also key, it is related to innovation  and entrepreneurship. We want the students to relate  to be entrepreneurs. We want the faculty to be entrepreneurs, we want everybody  to be really able to take a chance to try. We keep insisting to all our faculty,  to all our students that ideas are worth nothing unless they are really taking action or being put into action. So, the university has built its system in supporting students and the faculty and the researcher to give it a try, to take a risk, to fail, and to try again. So, we built the institution  and provided the training, and the policy to provide all those opportunities for them to be able to do that. And I think the fourth  very important element, in my opinion, is partnership because I think all the challenges that the world is facing right now cannot be addressed  and dealt with by one institution. That's why I think  we do a lot of partnerships of extended research team and extended educational relationship  with the institution to provide our students  with the best possible opportunities. Let's talk a moment about language, in particular, the Arabic language. We mentioned in the beginning  that the context of our discussion is that Qatar Foundation and TED are starting a partnership to launch a new platform for sharing ideas in Arabic. Now, Arabic is, I think, the sixth  most spoken language in the world. How do you see its importance  in the world today? So, the Arabic language, we all need to remember that the people  who are speaking Arabic today have contributed in the past  to the civilization of the universe. They were part  of that sequence of civilization. And I think the importance  of the language becomes because the language  brings history and culture with it. And it provides a set of values that can contribute  into a different framework, whether from an ethical perspective, which is really crucial when it comes  to stem cells, when it comes to AI, and when it comes to economy, it provides a different framework. So, I think the importance of the language comes not only because of its history, because of the number  of speaking that language. I think it comes because of its roots of providing, if you would like,  an alternative framework from a set of values,  from a set of cultures that is truly addressing  the future challenges of the universe, of the globe, using a different framework  and a different set of values. And this is where, I think, the language importance comes. And I think this is one dimension of it when you speak about it globally. When you speak about it  from a regional perspective, I think it is very important  for the population of the region to be connected to their history,  connected to their culture, feel that they can really have  their own mother tongue use to really express their ideas. As you know, people are  really much stronger when they express their ideas  in their native language, and they understand much better  in their native language. So, in order for you to do  that change in that region, you need to be able to provide enough knowledge, enough platform for the people to express  and to learn through their language because this the best way  they can really achieve their potential. So, to me, it is really the Foundation looking at their investment  in the language from those two perspectives,  from renaissance and civilization, and the ability of providing  that alternative, if you would like, a framework and alternative values, and at the same time being able  to provide the needed means for those societies to be able to be linked to their history and the future at the same time. So, when we look around, for example, to digital space, the web, only a small fraction  of the existing content is actually currently in Arabic, despite the continuing importance  of the language, as we have just described. So, what does having  curated content in Arabic through this new initiative  TED (Arabic) mean to you? And what do you think it would mean to Arabic speakers and thinkers and scientists everywhere? So, I think I know that the Arabic language on the web has not that much content, but what we are trying to do is also providing more means for people to be able  to access other languages through the language processing aspect  that I mentioned related to ICT. I think the relationship with TED,  it's a very important platform to provide those thinkers,  that young generation, those potential entrepreneurs, innovators a platform where they can express their ideas, provide their thinking to their region, to their investors,  to their private sector, to their institution, showing that even though  they might not really be 100% able to put their ideas in English  or French or other languages, we are providing them with the means, telling them that partnership  is providing you with that platform. What it takes from you now  is to have the courage of showing that you are really capable  of providing a very interesting idea, and you are really an entrepreneur, that you are not afraid  of sharing your ideas to the public, whether it's locally,  regionally, or internationally. So now the plan for TED (Arabic) is to have events, of course, have a website, including a flagship event in Doha  at the end of the initiative, and to feature thinkers, researchers,  artists, change-makers, entrepreneurs from across the Arab-speaking world. What are you personally  most excited about in this partnership? Again, I think the Foundation  has started doing a lot of work in trying to promote  that entrepreneurship, so the Foundation  started "Stars of Science," where it attracts the young generation,  entrepreneurs, innovators into trying to really  take their ideas into action. And I think that relationship with TED comes as part of that sequence,  that work the Foundation is doing from not only trying to increase  the publication in Arabic, which we do in HBKU Press, through "Stars of Science" - where we are really promoting  that young generation to really bring their ideas  and be more innovative - but also coming into a platform  where we are taking that young generation, those scientists,  those thinkers, those innovators globally and providing them with the right platform to express their ideas and to feel that we are really guiding them  in that continuum, from working on the language, because, as you know, language is not only science. When you are not doing well, you are not only lagging in science, you are lagging in science,  you are lagging in society, you are lagging in language,  are lagging in everything. So, what we are trying to do is we're trying to really promote and get this language,  again, back into the level where people start using it,  it starts really being active, and this is, again, as I said, similar to what everything  the Foundation does. It supports the language development, it supports the publication and writing, whether it's an academic  or non-academic book in the language and promotes that, it's also providing  the generation of entrepreneurs the ability to really  get through programs like "Stars of science," which I have mentioned, and then provide the platform  where you complete that equation, if you would like, taking the young generation  from the schools who are learning Arabic up to you having an idea, and you can be able  to present it to the globe. So, to be honest, I am excited ... the most exciting one is to see  those young entrepreneurs on the stage having the courage of saying, "We are really part of that globe we have great ideas,  and we are happy to present those." Thank you. That's a beautiful way  to end this conversation. I look forward with my colleagues  to see this partnership develop, to meeting you and your colleagues in Doha, and, of course,  I thank the Qatar Foundation for its support of TED's mission. Dr. Hasnah, thank you very much  for taking the time. And to those who have been listening, thank you for listening.