Hello I ' m Jess Thom , I ' m an artist and part-time superhero . I have Tourette ' s syndrome a neurological condition that causes involuntary movements and noises called tics . There are three things you need to know straight away . Firstly , you ' re going to hear the words " biscuit " and " hedgehog " a lot in the next few minutes . Secondly , several times a day , my ticks suddenly intensify to a point where I completely lose control of my body and speech . These episodes , which I call ticcing fits look seizure like , and need similar management . If this happens while I ' m speaking , my support worker will come and help me and Daniel will take over . Finally , if I tic something funny you ' re absolutely allowed to laugh . In fact , it ' ll be a bit odd if you don ' t . I ' m going to start by giving you a brief introduction to Tourette ' s , one of the most misunderstood conditions on the planet . Lot ' s of people have heard of Tourette ' s but most of what they know is based on myths and stereotypes . Let ' s get some of these out of the way now . Swearing . Tourette ' s is often characterized as the swearing disease . But in fact , coprolalia the the technical name for ticced , for ticced , for obscene tics affects only 10% of people with the condition . I ' m one of them but but for me tic swearing makes up only a tiny fraction of what I say involuntarily . Tourette ' s isn ' t a rare condition . It ' s estimated to effect 300 , 000 people in the UK alone . It impacts each person differently . So He doesn ' t really , don ' t worry . Some people ' s tics will be barely noticeable , while others will behave in a way that makes them stand out . Everyone with Tourette ' s will have multiple motor tics , and at least one vocal tic . These these can be as simple as blinking . or as complex as jumping , or saying things like: " The history of Iguanas can be written in a tea pot . " Tourette ' s isn ' t saying what ' s on your mind . I don ' t think about biscuits nearly as much as I talk about them . Anything I ' ve ever known or experienced has the potential to become a tic . Search search for Tourette ' s online and you ' ll get simplistic definitions that never really convey the experience of having it . My sister found a description in the Oxford Handbook of Clinical Medicine . It says: " Tourette ' s is expl explo Explosive , occasionally obscene verbal ejaculations and gestures . " It goes on: " There may be a witty , innovatory , phantasmagorical picture with mimicry , antics and playfulness . " That ' s the Tourette ' s I recognize . I ' ve had tics since I was six . As a child they were milder and less noticeable . Then in my early twenties , they began to intensify , and have a bigger impact on my life . In 2010 I co-founded Touretteshero . An organization that celebrates the humor and creativity of Tourette ' s . Before starting Touretteshero , I found it hard to talk about Tourette ' s without tears . A single phrase shifted my thinking . My friend Matthew described my tics as a crazy language-generating machine . He told me not doing something creative with them would be wasteful . This ide this idea took root and it helped me to see my tics as my power rather than my problem . Through Touretteshero , I can recast the symptoms of my condition as springboards for creativity . On the website I invite on the website I share over 5 , 000 of my vocal tics and invite anyone to make art in response . I propose that humor and creativity are key tools in encouraging people to think more deeply about an often mocked condition . Put simply , Touretteshero ' s mission is to change the world , one tic at a time . Since the outset one of the big aims has been to use the creativity and spontaneity of Tourette ' s to capture the imaginations of scientists and academics and encourage new generations of researchers to take an interest in the condition . and I believe that innovative approaches have an important role to play in promoting increased increased discussion and that collaboration across disciplines offers opportunities for new understanding and thinking . It ' s easy to see how vocal tics with their vivid imagery can be illustrated . Or how the movements of motor tics could be choreographed into dance . But what about the most distressing and debilitating aspects of Tourette ' s ? Can these be given over for transformation ? I don ' t just think they can , to me it ' s really important that they are . By far , one of the most difficult aspects of Tourette ' s for me is my ticcing fits . While these aren ' t a classic par while these aren ' t part of the classic presentation , they are experienced by others with the condition . These episodes have been happening on and off for several years . But since October 2011 , they ' ve been a feature of my daily life . They happen several times in any 24 hours period and could last from just a few minutes , to several hours . They can happen anywhere regardless of where I am , or what I ' m doing . Whether I ' m at work , on a bus or fast asleep . I ' ve had fits in front of sunsets and in the pouring rain . To . . To . . . To explain what happens during these episodes I often use the analogy of a fruit machine . A number of different things can happen but the mix of what turns up in each fit is completely random . The key elements are loss of speech , fast , frequent movement of my arms , legs and stomach , Dystonic tics that make that make my muscles go tense and my body lock up , a deeply unpleasant choking tic and a very painful gaping of my jaw . I ' m imagining you all in bikinis . Not really . My support workers record information about each fit . Where it hap . . . The start and end time , the severity , where it happened and what elements were present . I gave a year ' s worth of this data to doctor Thomas Doctor Thomas Mitchell and Professor Joseph Hyde . Tom ' s a music technologist and lecturer at UWE and Joe ' s and and and Joe ' s a composer and and professor of creative music technology at Bath Spa University . They have turned this data into a sound piece by attributing sonic characteristics to the information generated by my by my fits . Here is an extract from this from this piece that represents two months this this collaboration is an expression of an idea at the heart of Tourette ' s syndrome . But even the most challenging aspects of the condition have created potential . Utilizing this can help unlock new ways of seeing and understanding complex experiences . But most importantly , it can help open minds . My challenge to you is to make good use of your own powers . My invitation is to enjoy and share in mine . Together we can change attitudes and replace misconceptions with understanding . We can encourage more people , we can make interesting art along the way , and we can encourage more people to contributing to to unraveling the mysteries of Tourette ' s the mind and the alchemy of chaos . And the biscuits